# Data Modeling with Postgres
-----

## Introduction

Create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play for a startup called Sparkify that wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to.


## Data
### Song Dataset
* The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like
```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}

```

### Log Dataset

* The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```
## Schema for Song Play Analysis

### 1. Fact Table
* songplays - songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### 1.Dimension Tables
* users - users in the app - user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
* songs - songs in music database - song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
* artists - artists in music database - artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
* time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Project Files
* `test.ipynb` displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.
* `create_tables.py` drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.
* `etl.ipynb` reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
* `etl.py` reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables.
* `sql_queries.py` contains all sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.

## Run The Project
Locate to Project File and run
```
!python create_tables.py
```
After that you can either work with `etl.ipynb` or run `etl.py` from the termnal
```
!python etl.py
```

> **Note** - You will not be able to run test.ipynb, etl.ipynb, or etl.py until you have run create_tables.py at least once to create the sparkifydb database, which these other files connect to.
