# Data Modeling with Postgres
-----

## Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON on the songs in their app.

To process the data I build an Data lake that extracts their data from S3, process them with Spark, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables then uploud it into a diffrent S3 Bucket for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to and more

## Data
* the datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:
```
Song data: s3a://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3a://udacity-dend/log_data

```
### Song Dataset
* The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like
```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}

```

### Log Dataset

* The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```
## Schema for Song Play Analysis

### 1. Fact Table
* songplays - songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### 1.Dimension Tables
* users - users in the app - user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
* songs - songs in music database - song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
* artists - artists in music database - artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude
* time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

## Project Files
* `etl.py` reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into S3 bucket.
* `etl_test.ipynb` contains all sql queries, and is imported into the files above.

## Run The Project
Locate to Project File and run
```
!python etl.py
```
or you can check out the `etl_test.ipynb` for more clearness

> **Note** - Running the code locally may take more time .